At least nine Palestinians
have been killed in the West
Bank after the Israeli military
launched rates and airstrikes overnight.
That's according
to the Palestinian Health ministry.
The Israeli military says it launched
a large counter-terror operation
overnight in two refugee camps.
Officials say
the Israeli military was targeting,
quote, Islamic
Iranian terrorist infrastructure.
CNN's Paula Hancocks is live for us
this hour in Abu Dhabi. And Paula.
This marks the largest Israeli operation
in the West Bank. For years.
And we understand we are hearing
there's been a response from Hamas
this hour to what has occurred.
Yeah.
Christina remarks.
This is certainly
a significant operation.
We have been saying for months
that there have been
these limited operations
by the Israeli military
into the occupied West Bank.
Hundreds of Palestinians
have been killed over recent months,
since October 7th of last year.
But this is definitely something
more significant that we are seeing now.
We did hear from the governor
of Jeanine that he said
just after midnight.
So in the early hours of Wednesday,
the Israeli military surrounded
the refugee camp.
And Jeanine itself,
he says that he can still hear gunfire
ongoing in the area.
So it is believed
this operation is still going.
And he says a third of the city
is without electricity at this point.
Now, as you say,
we know that nine
Palestinians have been killed.
We hear from the
the Red Crescent Society,
from the Ministry of Health,
that those deaths
happened from airstrikes,
also from strikes on the ground.
We hear drones are in the air as well.
And when it comes
to the Israeli response so far,
we understand
there are hundreds,
at least hundreds of personnel involved.
We've been told that
there are four battalions of the border
police alone,
including undercover border police.
And that doesn't include the military
and the intelligence element.
So this is a large operation.
Now, one thing I wanted to
mention was a tweet
we had from the Israeli foreign minister,
which was interesting.
He gave a reason for this operation,
saying that it was to thwart
what he called Islamic Iranian terrorist
infrastructure, saying that
Iran is funding
and arming terrorists in the West Bank
as trying to create a situation
similar to Gaza and Lebanon.
And he said, quote,
we must address this threat
just like
we're handling
terror infrastructure in Gaza,
including temporary evacuation
of Palestinian residents
and any step necessary.
This is a war like any other,
and we must win it.
Now, that is significant.
The fact that he's suggesting
there could be evacuations
in the occupied West
Bank, just as there are
and have been in Gaza, putting
really a connection
between those two areas
and the potential Israeli
reaction to those areas.
Now, we've also heard
from the Ministry of Health
in the West Bank
that at least two hospitals
have been blocked
by the Israeli military,
saying that
there have been mounds of dirt,
for example, pushed towards those areas.
we have seen and obtained video
that would back up some of those claims.
You've seen some very heavy
Israeli military assets in those areas.
Bulldozers, for example,
pushing up infrastructure and pavements
and roads in those areas.
and we are still getting information
and video coming in,
showing the extent of this operation.
but what we're hearing
from the Israeli side
is that they are trying to, to to end
the Iranian terrorist infrastructure,
as they put it, in this, this area
from the Palestinian side
and certainly from those in Janine,
one of the key areas
that has been targeted,
certainly from the,
the governor,
they are concerned
about access to hospitals, about,
hundreds, within those hospitals itself.
given that they're claiming that,
that Israel has restricted,
all access that we heard
from the Red Crescent Society
as well, saying,
that their maneuvering of ambulances
has been
heavily restricted
by the Israeli military as well.
Max. Christina.
if this war expands funds from Gaza to,
the West Bank, that's obviously
a big escalation of that war, isn't it?
Just Israel have the
the resources for that.
I mean, I think they
certainly have the resources.
It would be a significant escalation.
The fact that the foreign minister
is connected in the to,
in such a blatant way on zoom,
Twitter is is significant
in itself,
mentioning potential evacuation
of Palestinian residents,
something that we have been seeing
for months, in Gaza
and something
we are still seeing,
the,
the Gaza residents that have been, moved
sometimes a dozen times from area to area
as the Israeli military tries
to clear out
civilians, they say, and target
Hamas militants
that are within
that area, will tunnels
that are within that area.
Now, if that were to be replicated in
in the West Bank, it would be,
very significant, very devastating
when you're talking
about these refugee camps in, in, shams,
for example, in Janine,
they are densely populated.
It a very similar situation
to what we see, in Gaza,
where it would be difficult
for them to be to be evacuated.
And of course, there would be a concern
if this operation
were to be significantly increased
by the Israelis
that there would be civilian casualties
within that as well.
Now, at this point, the Israeli military
not specifying
how wide this operation is
or how long it will go on for,
but suffice to say it is larger
than we have seen in some time.
Paula, thank you very much.
just to add to Paula's excellent
reporting there
that we have
had a response from Hamas,
in the last hour
calling for a general mobilization
and escalation of confrontation
in response to the Israeli operations
in the West Bank.
Although it is
hard to see
how that retaliation
would actually happen
given the scale of what
has been occurring in the West
Bank, as Paula has outlined there.
CNN anchor and chief national security
analyst Jim Sciutto is in Tel Aviv.
Jim, what are you learning about
this operation this morning?
Well, John, it's
the biggest Israeli operation
in the West Bank
since the October 7th attacks.
Israeli officials, the IDF,
say they're going
after what they call
Islamic Iranian terror infrastructure.
The allegation
they're making is that
weapons are coming into the West
Bank, funded by facilitated by Iran,
and that this attack is intended
to target that
the death toll
at this point stands at at least nine.
And what we're hearing
now publicly in response
from Hamas is Hamas
is calling
for a mobilization
of its supporters
and fighters in the West Bank.
So it's a significant operation.
And that reaction from Hamas
is significant.
Israeli officials
make the point
that the terror environment,
the threat is real.
Now, you may remember
a little more than a week ago,
there was a suicide
bombing here in Tel Aviv,
where only the bomber was killed.
So the Israeli
officials, Israeli
officials, are justifying
it based on the nature of the threat.
And what they say is the infrastructure
building in the West Bank.
Where does this put
the the
hostage and ceasefire negotiations?
Listen, you know,
I've covered so many negotiations
like this, and oftentimes
you will see attacks
like this, operations
like this,
in the midst of sensitive negotiations.
And it's hard to say
which way it will cut.
Will it disrupt those negotiations
because it.
Well, when you have Israel and Hamas
carrying out operations
like this against each other
certainly can make it harder
for negotiators.
Can you make the argument
that it allows Israeli
negotiators to show toughness
in terms of counterterror operations,
and therefore make it easier
to make concessions to bring a deal
across the finish line? Maybe.
But let's be frank,
those negotiations are quite sensitive
right now.
It's not clear
that they are making progress
on the most intractable issues.
So any increase in hostilities,
particularly in the West
Bank, are ones
that you have to treat as a risk.
And it's been notable
to hear the Israeli foreign minister
tweeting today that Israel should treat
carry out
operations in the West Bank
like they've been carrying out in Gaza.
That certainly would be quite
an escalation.
Yes it would.
All right.
Jim Sciutto, great to have you there.
Thanks so much,